# Practical information for execution

BlackRock, State Street, and Avantis do not offer brokerage services, so their products must be purchased through other institutions. You can (but do not need to) create a Fidelity, Vanguard, or Schwab account to use their products. E\*Trade is an additional example of a broker through which you could buy shares of the suggested funds. As discussed earlier, a Fidelity account offers the advantage of trading fractional shares of ETFs. Vanguard’s website is difficult to use compared to its peers, so even if you decide on Vanguard funds, you may want to purchase them through Fidelity or Schwab.

Before moving your money into a particular brokerage account, ensure that it is possible to buy shares in all of the funds you’re considering. Find out what fees, if any, the broker charges upon purchase and sale. The money from your first transfer may not be available to trade with for a few business days. And when you want to move money from investments to your bank account, the funds will not be available to withdraw until [two business days](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/settlement_period.asp) after you close the corresponding position. So if you sold shares of a bond ETF on a Friday, the soonest you could transfer the money would be Tuesday morning (assuming no federal holidays). However, if you have enabled [margin](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/margin.asp) features in your account, many brokers will permit you to transfer funds immediately.

It is advisable to select the option to reinvest dividends and capital gain distributions in your settings. It will increase the shares you own and magnify compounding growth. Alternatively, you could refrain from automatically reinvesting and use each dividend as an opportunity to partially [rebalance](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/rebalancing.asp) your portfolio. Either way, most people are best served by not treating dividends as a form of immediate income, but rather as a portion of their shares which they were forced to sell. (See [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f5j9v9dfinQ&ab_channel=BenFelix) on the irrelevance of dividends.)

If you decide to use fractional shares through Fidelity, you should be aware of a few details. Dealing in fractional shares may mean that your trade cannot be executed immediately in full, because the broker needs to combine your fractional share with those owned by others. Since mainstream ETFs are rarely volatile, this will not matter in the vast majority of cases, but you should be aware of it. (Using a [limit order](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/limitorder.asp) instead of a market order prevents any surprises about the share price; this is good practice in general.) No matter how many ETFs are in an allocation plan, it is necessary to buy only one fractional share, and this is wise even if it means that the proportions will not be perfect. It is advisable to own a fractional share of the largest fund, because this is likely to be the most liquid. The 30-day median bid-ask spread is a more direct way of assessing liquidity than assets under management. Lower is better. In the most liquid ETFs, the median spread will be .01% or may even round down to .00%. Selecting a large ETF with a very low bid-ask spread is likely to lead to an immediate execution of the fractional trade.

In contrast to stocks and ETFs, mutual funds are not traded during market hours. Instead, once you submit an order to buy or sell shares of a mutual fund, the order will not execute until the conclusion of market hours. The order cutoff time is 4pm ET. Remember: _if you submit a buy or sell order after 4pm, it will not execute that day_. Another day of trading will occur before the order is executed after market hours. An order can be cancelled until 4pm on the day it will be executed.

For logistical and financial reasons, mutual funds prohibit frequent trading. Fidelity mutual funds suspend users from purchasing further shares for 85 days if their [rules](personal.fidelity.com/products/trading/Trading_Platforms_Tools/excessive_trading_policies.shtml) are violated. A single, occasional sale within 30 days of a purchase is acceptable. Suspension will occur if you sell shares within 30 days of a purchase more than once within a 90-day period. They will never block sales, only purchases. Trades of $1,000 or less are exempt from this policy and will never trigger a block. There are no such restrictions on ETF trading.

&nbsp;

[Click here for the next section — Taxes](https://github.com/investindex/Taxes)

&nbsp;
